---
layout:      page
toc:  true
title:       Globus and Amazon S3
see-also: true
id: cloud
description: Globus works with Amazon S3, but with a number of restrictions.
---

{% capture collection-under-construction %}
<h2>Under Construction</h2>
<p>This collection is still under construction, and is likely going to change
in the future.  If you run into problems accessing it, check the announcements
(on the home page) to see if things have changed!</p>
{% endcapture %}

{% include info-box.html
   icon="wrench"
   raw=collection-under-construction
%}

{% include info-box.html
   icon="cloud"
   header="Cloud familiarity assumed"
   content="This page assumes that you are familiar with Amazon S3, IAM users, custom IAM policies, and S3 bucket policies."
%}

# Amazon S3

The following AWS S3 regions are available:

* [us-east-1: US East (N. Virginia)](https://app.globus.org/file-manager/collections/80414941-1880-4304-8d86-910c28a7356e/overview)
* [us-east-2: US East (Ohio)](https://app.globus.org/file-manager/collections/ca564628-69d2-4dab-be3b-47bcdd158b89/overview)
* [us-west-1: US West (N. California)](https://app.globus.org/file-manager/collections/ef377be5-efc2-4b21-af30-fcba6d7cf2af/overview)
* [us-west-2: US West (Oregon)](https://app.globus.org/file-manager/collections/483837a5-663b-407a-9168-9ec98f82ff36/overview)

For other regions, please [email us](mailto:srcc-support@stanford.edu), and we
will add support for them.

Before continuing, you may need to do some one-time setup work.  You will need
to…

* <a href="#service-limitations">Review the service limitations</a>, to see if
  they will affect your usage.  If you are still OK using Globus, your next
  step will be to…

* <a href="#creating-an-iam-user">Create an IAM User</a>, with an access key
  (officially an "Access Key ID") and a secret key (officially a "Secret Access
  Key").  *Each person may only have one IAM User associated with Globus.*
  Once your IAM User is created, you will need to…

* <a href="#assigning-local-permissions">Grant the IAM User access to
  buckets</a>.  For S3 buckets in other accounts, this will also give your IAM
  User permission to reach out to those other accounts.  Finally, you need to…

* <a href="#loading-credentials-into-globus">Load the IAM User credentials into
  Globus</a>.  This gives Globus access to S3, with the credentials you
  provide.

Once the one-time setup work is complete, you should proceed to <a
href="#accessing-files-on-s3">access your files on S3</a>.

If you will be accessing S3 buckets in other accounts, those account owners
will also need to <a href="#assigning-cross-account-permissions">grant access
to your IAM User</a>.

Each step is described in detail below.

## Service Limitations

Globus has a number of limitations when working with Amazon S3.  These limits
do not affect most common use cases, but they might affect you, so you should
review them before starting to use Globus with Amazon S3.

Globus for Amazon S3 does not support the following S3 features:

* Custom Metadata / Tags: Custom Metadata and tags on existing objects are
  ignored when those objects are downloaded, and new objects do not have custom
  metadata or tags set.

* Versions: When downloading a file from an S3 bucket, Globus will always
  access the latest version.

* ACLs: ACLs on existing objects (and the bucket) will influence what you can
  download through Globus, but those ACLs are not copied out of S3.  When
  uploading new objects, ACLs are not explicitly set, and so inherit any
  bucket-level ACL that is set.

* Additional Checksum Algorithms: At this time, if an object in S3 needs to be
  verified, Globus will re-download it in order to compute the checksum.

* Requester-Pays buckets: Attempts to access a requester-pays bucket will
  always show a _Permission Denied_ error (that is what Amazon S3 returns).

* Storage classes that are not S3 Standard: Globus will always upload objects
  as Standard S3.  Globus can download objects that are stored with any storage
  class, with one exception: Objects stored in Glacier must be retrieved before
  they may be downloaded.

These limitations are present for two reasons:

1. Globus supports only a common set of features between storage platforms, to
   make file transfers as portable as possible.

2. The Globus-for-S3 add-on supports other platforms which speak S3.  Not all
   S3-speaking products support Amazon S3 features.

That being said, Globus has agreed to support Requester-Pays buckets as future
enhancement to the Globus-for-S3 add-on.  When that is available, an
announcement will be posted.

For users who want to upload data into a different storage class (that is not
S3 Standard), we suggest using [AWS Lambda with Amazon
S3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/with-s3.html), so that as soon
as an object is uploaded to a bucket, the Lambda function triggers and sets the
correct storage class.

If you are OK with the limitations above, you should move on to creating an IAM
User, which Globus will need to interact with S3.

## IAM User Configuration

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3IAMDiagram.svg"
   alt="A diagram showing three AWS accounts.  The first account has an IAM
   User for Leland Stanford, and buckets for Leland Stanford and Leland
   Stanford Junior.  Leland Stanford has access to his bucket.  Leland Stanford
   also has access to one bucket in the other two AWS accounts."
   caption-header="An example IAM User with local and cross-account access"
   caption-text="The IAM User for Leland Stanford Senior has access to one bucket in his AWS account, plus buckets in the AWS accounts for the Central Pacific Railroad and Stanford University."
%}

Globus for S3 requires an IAM User to interact with Amazon S3.  Globus only
allows each person to add one IAM User, so if you need to access buckets in
other accounts, you will be configuring *cross-account access*.  This section
will explain how to set up your IAM User for access to local buckets and for
cross-account access.

This section assumes the fictitious environment above:

* AWS Account 123456789 has two buckets, one for Leland Stanford Senior and
  one for Leland Stanford Junior.

* AWS Account 312665112 has a bucket containing files related to the [Central
  Pacific Railroad](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Central_Pacific_Railroad).

* AWS Account 650121554 has a bucket containing files related to the
  newly-founded [Leland Stanford Junior University](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stanford_University#History).

* In AWS Account 123456789, an IAM User for Leland Senior—meant specifically
  for Globus use—has access to his own bucket in the local AWS account, as well
  as the buckets in the Railroad and University AWS accounts.

{% include info-box.html
   icon="arrow-alt-circle-up"
   header="Use a dedicated IAM User"
   content="It is best if you use a dedicated IAM User for Globus use, to keep Globus credentials separate from credentials in use on other platforms."
%}

### Creating an IAM User

Before granting access, you must first create an IAM User.  Within the AWS
Console, navigate to the *IAM* section, and click on *Users*.  Then click on
the "Add users" button.

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3IAMDashboard.png"
   alt="The AWS IAM Dashboard, the contents of which are currently unimportant."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="AWS IAM Dashboard"
   caption-text=""
%}

Give your user a name, and select the "Access key - Programmatic access" box.
Click "Next: Permissions".

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3AddUserscreen1.png"
   alt="A screen asking you to enter a username, and select how the IAM User will access AWS, either programmatically or via the web site."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="AWS IAM Dashboard"
   caption-text=""
%}

For now, we are not setting any permissions.  Click "Next: Tags".

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3AddUserscreen2.png"
   alt="A screen asking you to assign permissions.  Right now no permissions are set."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="AWS IAM Dashboard"
   caption-text=""
%}

It is helpful to set a tag indicating who is using this IAM User.  Set a tag
with key "user" and a value of your SUNetID.  Click "Next: Review" and then
"Create user".

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3AddUserscreen3.png"
   alt="A screen asking you to assign tags, with each tag having a key and optional value."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="AWS IAM Dashboard"
   caption-text=""
%}

AWS creates the user and creates a new Access key.  Copy the Access key ID and
Secret access key.

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3AddUserfinal.png"
   alt="The screen confirming the creation of a new IAM User, with access key and secret key."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="AWS IAM Dashboard"
   caption-text=""
%}

**WARNING:** The Secret access key is **very sensitive**.  Keep it in a safe place,
and delete your local copy as soon as you have entered it into the Globus web
site.

You have now created an IAM User!  You can now proceed to give it permissions.

### Assigning Local Permissions

Now your IAM User is created, you need to grant it permission to access
buckets.  In addition to local buckets (which live in the same AWS account as
your IAM User), *you must also grant access to buckets in other AWS accounts.*

Within the AWS Console, navigate to the *IAM* section, and click on *Users*.

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3IAMDashboard.png"
   alt="The AWS IAM Dashboard, the contents of which are currently unimportant."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="AWS IAM Dashboard"
   caption-text=""
%}

Locate your IAM User and click on its name.

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3IAMUserslistwithLelandSenior.png"
   alt="A screen showing a list of IAM users, showing Leland Senior's IAM User."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="A list of IAM Users, with Leland Senior"
   caption-text=""
%}

On the page which appears, click on "Add inline policy".

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3UserLelandwithnopermissions.png"
   alt="A screen showing Leland Senior's IAM User, which has no permissions."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="Leland Senior, with no permissions (yet)"
   caption-text=""
%}

The *Visual Editor* will open.

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3UserVisualEditor.png"
   alt="The IAM Visual Editor's starting screen, showing one empty permission, which has four parts."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="S3 Policy Visual Editor"
   caption-text=""
%}

The Visual Editor supports granting multiple permissions in a single policy.
The red boxes show where you can define a single permission and add additional
permissions.  Each permission has four parts:

1. The service which it applies to.

2. The specific actions that are allowed.

3. The resources where the permission applies.

4. Optional conditions which must be met in order for the permission to be 

You need to define three permissions.  All three permissions will be for the
"S3" service, and no optional conditions will be applied.

#### Global Permissions

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3UserPermissionsBucket.png"
   alt="A Visual Editor permission allowing two actions, without limits."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="S3 global permissions required for Globus"
   caption-text=""
%}

First, you need to allow the `ListMyBuckets` and `GetBucketLocation`
actions, on all resources.  Globus uses the `ListMyBuckets` permission to
populate a list of buckets available in the local AWS account; it uses the
`GetBucketLocation` permission to identify the AWS region for a bucket.

#### Bucket-level Permissions

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3UserPermissionsList.png"
   alt="A Visual Editor permission allowing two List actions, on specific buckets."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="S3 bucket permissions required for Globus"
   caption-text=""
%}

Next, you need to allow the `ListBucket` and `ListBucketMultipartUploads`
actions.  `ListBucket` allows Globus to get a list of object in a bucket.
`ListBucketMultipartUploads` is used by Globus when uploading objects to a
bucket.

You should limit this permission to only the specific buckets that
need to be accessed through Globus.  Amazon identifies resources by 'ARN'.  The
ARN format for an S3 bucket is `arn:aws:s3:::BUCKET_NAME`.  You need to include
the ARN of every bucket that Globus will be allowed to access.

#### Object-level Permissions

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3UserPermissionsTransfer.png"
   alt="A Visual Editor permissions allowing several upload, download, and deletion actions, on all objects in specific buckets."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="S3 object permissions required for Globus"
   caption-text=""
%}

Finally, you need to allow all of the permissions needed for uploading,
downloading, and deleting:

* To allow downloading files from S3, you need to allow the `GetObject` action.

* To allow uploading files to S3, you need to allow the `PutObject`,
  `ListMultipartUploadParts`, and `AbortMultipartUpload` actions.

* To allow deleting files from S3, you need to allow the `DeleteObject` action.

You should limit this permission to all of the objects in the specific buckets
that need to be accessed through Globus.  The ARN format for S3 objects is
`arn:aws:s3:::BUCKET_NAME/*`.  You need to include the ARN of every bucket that
Globus will be allowed to access.  You can limit the permission to specific
objects or prefixes, but this is not recommended except in advanced use cases.

#### Local Permissions Summary

In the end, you should have three permissions, matching the pictures above.
If you look at the policy in the JSON editor, it should look similar to this:

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "AllBuckets",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "s3:ListAllMyBuckets",
                "s3:GetBucketLocation"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "Bucket",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "s3:ListBucketMultipartUploads",
                "s3:ListBucket"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:s3:::leland_sr_files",
                "arn:aws:s3:::cp_rr_files",
                "arn:aws:s3:::su_board_files"
            ]
        },
        {
            "Sid": "Objects",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "s3:PutObject",
                "s3:GetObject",
                "s3:AbortMultipartUpload",
                "s3:DeleteObject",
                "s3:ListMultipartUploadParts"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:s3:::leland_sr_files/*",
                "arn:aws:s3:::cp_rr_files/*",
                "arn:aws:s3:::su_board_files/*"
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```

Review the policy, give it a name, and save.  The policy will take effect
within a minute or two of it being saved.

As your access changes in the future, you should edit the `Resource` sections,
adding and removing buckets as needed.  *Remember to modify **both** Resource
sections that have bucket names!*

Now that your local access has been set, the owners of the other AWS accounts
need to grant you access to their buckets.

### Assigning Cross-Account Permissions

If you own an Amazon S3 bucket, and you would like to give access to a Stanford
Globus user, you have two options:

1. If you have your own Globus endpoint, you can [make a Guest
   Collection](https://docs.globus.org/how-to/share-files/), and share it with
   the Stanford Globus user.

2. You can give the Stanford Globus user access to your Amazon S3 bucket
   through Amazon S3, by giving access to their IAM User.

This section explains how you (an Amazon S3 bucket owner) can give access to
someone else's IAM User, such that they can access the Amazon S3 bucket with
Globus.

In order to grant access, you will need their IAM User's ARN.  The person's IAM
User ARN should have the format
`arn:aws:iam::AWS_ACCOUNT_NUMBER:user/USER_NAME`.

{% include info-box.html
   icon="lock-open"
   header="Session tokens and signed URLs are not supported"
   content="Globus for S3 only supports access via IAM Users with Access Keys.  Session tokens and signed URLs are not supported."
%}

Within the AWS Console, navigate to the *S3* section and click on your bucket's
name.

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3Bucketslist.png"
   alt="A screen showing a list of S3 buckets."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="S3 buckets in an AWS account"
   caption-text=""
%}

Click on the *Permissions* tab.

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3Bucketpermissions.png"
   alt="An S3 bucket's permissions tab."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="The S3 permissions tab"
   caption-text=""
%}

Scroll down to the Bucket policy section and cick on *Edit*.

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3Bucketpolicy.png"
   alt="The S3 bucket's permissions tab, scrolled down to show an empty bucket policy."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="The bucket policy, with no policy set"
   caption-text=""
%}

The policy editor starts with a 'null' policy, which shows you the different
parts but does not actually do anything.

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3Bucketpolicyscreen.png"
   alt="An S3 bucket policy screen showing a policy JSON that doesn't do anything."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="A null bucket policy, which does nothing"
   caption-text=""
%}

Replace that null policy with the following JSON:

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "Bucket",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": {
                "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::AWS_ACCOUNT_NUMBER:user/USER_NAME"
            },
            "Action": [
                "s3:GetBucketLocation",
                "s3:ListBucket",
                "s3:ListBucketMultipartUploads"
            ],
            "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::BUCKET_NAME"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "Objects",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": {
                "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::AWS_ACCOUNT_NUMBER:user/USER_NAME"
            },
            "Action": [
                "s3:GetObject",
                "s3:PutObject",
                "s3:DeleteObject",
                "s3:ListMultipartUploadParts",
                "s3:AbortMultipartUpload"
            ],
            "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::BUCKET_NAME/*"
        }
    ]
}
```

Replace `BUCKET_NAME` with your bucket's name, and fill in the IAM User
information you were given.

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3Bucketpolicyscreenwithpolicy.png"
   alt="The S3 bucket policy screen, with the above JSON pasted in."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="A bucket policy granting access to Leland Sr."
   caption-text=""
%}

The above policy provides full access to download from, upload to, and delete
objects in the bucket.  You can limit access by tailoring the policy:

* To remove access to upload files, remove the `s3:PutObject`,
  `s3:ListMultipartUploadParts`, and `s3:AbortMultipartUpload` permission.

* To remove access to delete objects, remove the `s3:DeleteObject` permission.

* To limit which part of the bucket the user may access, tailor the `Resource`
  section in the second policy statement.

If you make changes, make sure to remove any excess commas (the last item in a
JSON list must have no comma).  Make sure there are no JSON Security notices,
Errors, or Warnings.  Finally, click on *Save changes*.

Within a minute or two of you saving changes, they will take effect.  As long
as the Stanford Globus user has finished the IAM configuration on their end,
they will now be able to access your bucket.


## Loading Credentials into Globus

With an IAM User created, you can now upload your credentials to Globus.

Using the link at the top of the page, access the S3 collection.  You might be
asked to log in; if so, log in through *Stanford University*.

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3CollectionwithCredentials.png"
   alt="The S3 collection, with the Credentials tab hilighted."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="S3 collection"
   caption-text=""
%}

You will be taken to the main page for the collection.  Click on the
'Credentials' tab.

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3Collectioncredentialsconsent1.png"
   alt="A prompt to give Globus consent to manage your S3 credentials."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="S3 credentials consent required"
   caption-text=""
%}

If this is the first time you accessed this collection, you will be asked to
give consent for Globus to store your S3 credentials.  Click 'Continue'.

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/Consentidentityselection.png"
   alt="A prompt to select an identity for giving consent."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="Select identity for giving consent"
   caption-text=""
%}

Some institutions allow you to have multiple accounts.  Stanford only allows
one SUNetID per person, so click on your SUNetID.

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3Collectioncredentialsconsent2.png"
   alt="A prompt to give consent to the Globus Web app to manage your IAM User credentials in the S3 collection."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="Consent required to manage AWS credentials"
   caption-text=""
%}

Finally, click on 'Allow' to give Globus permission to store your S3
credentials.

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3Collectioncredentialentry.png"
   alt="A form to enter your IAM User's Access Key ID and Secret Access Key."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="AWS IAM User credential entry"
   caption-text=""
%}

Once consent is granted, you will be asked to enter your IAM User credentials.
Enter the Access Key ID and Secret Key from when you <a
href="#creating-an-iam-user">created your IAM User</a>.

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3Collectioncredentiallist.png"
   alt="The credentials page after an IAM User credential has been entered, showing the Access Key ID and associated Globus identity."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="AWS IAM User credential listing"
   caption-text=""
%}

If you go to the Credentials tab after entering an IAM User credential, you
will see the Access Key ID, along with an option to replace the credential (the
gear icon) or delete the credential (the trashcan icon).

{% include info-box.html
   icon="clock"
   header="Rotate credentials regularly"
   content="You should rotate credentials—generating a new Secret Key—once every three months."
%}

You should now proceed to accessing the collection!

## Accessing Files on S3

With AWS IAM User credentials loaded and permissions granted, you may now
proceed to access your data on Amazon S3 through Globus!

Using the link at the top of the page, access the S3 collection.  You might be
asked to log in; if so, log in through *Stanford University*.

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3CollectionwithOverviewandFileManager.png"
   alt="The S3 collection, with the Overview tab and File Manager buttons hilighted."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="S3 collection"
   caption-text=""
%}

Click on the "Open in File Manager" button.  That will take you to the File
Manager and connect to S3.

### First-Time Access

The first time you access the S3 collection, you will be asked for consent.

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3FileManagerwithconsentscreen.png"
   alt="The S3 collection, saying that consent is required."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="S3 collection requesting consent"
   caption-text=""
%}

When you first loaded your credentials, you gave Globus consent to store those
credentials for you.  Now, you are giving Globus consent to actually use those
credentials to talk to S3.  Click the "Continue" button.

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/Consentidentityselection.png"
   alt="A prompt to select an identity for giving consent."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="Select identity for giving consent"
   caption-text=""
%}

Some institutions allow you to have multiple accounts.  Stanford only allows
one SUNetID per person, so click on your SUNetID.

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3Collectionaccessconsent.png"
   alt="A prompt to give consent to the Globus Web app to access S3 on your behalf."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="S3 collection consent screen"
   caption-text=""
%}

Finally, click on 'Allow' to give Globus permission to use your AWS IAM User
credentials to access Amazon S3.

### Subsequent Accesses

When you access the S3 collection—assuming you have previously provided
consent—you should be greeted with a list of the buckets from your AWS Account.

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3FileManagerroot.png"
   alt="The File Manager showing the root of the S3 collection, listing buckets."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="The list of buckets in the local AWS Account"
   caption-text=""
%}

To access one of the buckets—*assuming your IAM User has
permissions*—double-click on the bucket's name.

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3FileManagerbucket.png"
   alt="The File Manager showing the root of an S3 bucket."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="An S3 bucket"
   caption-text=""
%}

If your IAM User does not have permissions, attempting to list the contents of
the bucket will give an error.

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3FileManagerlistingerror.png"
   alt="The File Manager, showing an erorr when trying to access a bucket in the S3 collection."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="Accessing an inaccessible S3 bucket"
   caption-text=""
%}

Once you have access to a bucket, you can transfer files in and out like any
other Globus collection.

### Cross-Account Bucket Access

Before accessing the bucket, your IAM User must have a policy attached giving
it permissions to access the bucket.  Also, the owner of the bucket must attach
a policy giving your IAM User access.

If your IAM User has been given access to a bucket in a different AWS account,
it will not appear in the list of buckets that you see when you first access
the collection.

To actually access the bucket, manually enter the bucket name into the Path
field.

{% include hero-image.html
   src="/assets/cloud/S3 File Manager root with external bucket name.png"
   alt="The File Manager, showing the root of the S3 collection, with a cross-account bucket name in the Path field."
   caption-overlay=true
   caption-header="Accessing a cross-account S3 bucket"
   caption-text=""
%}

When you press the Enter key, Globus will attempt to access the bucket.  If
your permissions are correct, you will see a file listing.




